


	  
	    
		  I. Once
		  were we young in the Garden... 
		
		 a.  
			The Internet is us, connected. 
		  
		 1 
			 The Internet is not made of copper wire, glass fiber, radio waves, or even tubes.  
			
		  
		 2 
			  The devices we use to connect to the Internet are not
			  the Internet.   
		  
		 3 
			  Verizon, Comcast, AT&T, Deutsche Telekom, and 中国电信 do not own the Internet. Facebook, Google, and Amazon are not the Net’s monarchs, nor yet are their minions or algorithms. Not the governments of the Earth nor their Trade Associations have the consent
				of the networked to bestride the Net as sovereigns.   
		  
		 4 
We hold the Internet in common and as unowned. 
			 
		  
		 5 
From us and from what we have built on it does the Internet derive all its value.  
			
		  
		 6 
			  The Net is of us, by us, and for us.  
			
		  
		 7 
			  The Internet is ours.   
		 
		
		
		
		 b.  
			The Internet is nothing and has no purpose. 
		  
		 8 
			 The Internet is not a thing any more than gravity is a thing. Both pull us together.  
			
		  
		 9 
			 The Internet is no-thing at all. As we have explained elsewhere, at its base the Internet is a set of agreements, which the geeky among us (long may their names be hallowed) call “protocols,” but which we might, in the temper of the day, call “commandments.”  
			
		  
		 10 
			 The first among these is: Thy network shall move all packets closer to their destinations without favor or delay based on origin, source, content, or intent. 
			 
		  
		 11 
			 Thus does this First Commandment lay open the Internet to every idea, application, business, quest, vice and whatever.   
		  
		 12 
			  There has not been a tool with such a general purpose since language.   
		 
		  
		 13 
			 This means the Internet is not for anything special or in particular. Not for social networking, not for documents, not for advertising, not for business, not for education, not for porn, not for anything. It is specifically designed for everything.  
			
		  
		 14 
Optimizing the Internet for one purpose de-optimizes it for all others.   
		  
		 15 
The Internet like gravity is indiscriminate in its attraction. It pulls us all together, the virtuous and the wicked alike.   
		 
		
		
		
		 c.  
			The Net is not content. 
		  
		 16 
There is great content on the Internet. But holy mother of cheeses, the Internet is not made out of content.   
		  
		 17 
Did we use the word "content" without quotes? We feel so dirty.   
		  
		 18 
The word "content" takes crap intended to sound like it was written by someone who cares — you know, one of us — and puts it into the same linguistic bin as a teenager's unrequited love note, the blissful release of a long-kept secret, a fine sketch drawn by a palsied hand, a blog post in a regime that hates the sound of its people's voices.  
			
		  
		 19 
			  "Content"? Feh.   
		 
		
		
		
		
		 d.  
			The Net is not a medium. 
		  
		 20 
In the classical sense, anything that alters or affects a message passing through a medium is noise. A good medium passes its messages with the least interference.   
		  
		 21 
			 So, what passes messages on the Internet? You and me, sisters and brothers. We move messages every time we tweet or retweet, send a link in an email, or post it on a social network.   
		 
		  
		 22 
			 Unlike a medium, you and I leave our fingerprints, and sometimes bite marks, on the messages we pass. We tell people why we’re sending it. We argue with it. We add a joke. We chop off the part we don’t like. We make these messages our own.  
			
		  
		 23 
			 Every time we move a message through the Net, it carries a little bit of ourselves with it.  
			
		  
		 24 
			 If the Net were a medium, then you and we and everyone else would be naught but noise.  
			
		  
		 25 
			 We only move a message through this "medium" if it matters to us in one of the infinite ways that humans care about something.   
		 
		  
		 26 
			  Caring — mattering — is the motive force of the Internet.   
		
		
		
		
		 e 
			The Web is a Wide World. 
		  
		 27 
			 In 1991, Tim Berners-Lee — or, as we refer to him, “Sir” — used the Net to build one of the greatest gifts in our short history together: the World Wide Web.   
		  
		 28 
			  Thank you, Tim.   
		 
		  
		 29 
			TBL created the Web by providing protocols (there’s that word again!) that say how to write a page that can link to any other page without needing anyone’s permission.   
		  
		 30 
			 Boom. Within ten years we had billions of pages on the Web — a combined effort on the order of a World War, and yet so benign that the biggest complaint was the <blink> tag.  
		  
		 31 
			  The Web is an impossibly large, semi-persistent realm of items discoverable in their dense inter-connections.   
		 
		  
		 32 
			  That sounds familiar. Oh, yeah, that’s what the world
			  is.   
		  
		 33 
			 Unlike the real world, every thing and every connection on the Web was created by some one of us expressing an interest and an assumption about how those small pieces go together.  
			
		  
		 34 
			 The Web remakes the world in our collective, emergent image.   
		  
		 35 
			Did hyperlinks subvert authority? Just ask any of the old authorities. If you can find them.  
			
		
		 
	  
	  
	  
	    
		 II. But
		  oh how we have strayed, sisters and brothers... 
		
		 a.  
			When did conversation get weaponized,
			anyway? 
		  
		 36 
			 It’s important to notice and cherish the talk, the friendship, the thousand acts of sympathy, kindness and joy we encounter on the Internet.  
			
		  
		 37 
			  And yet, we hear the words “fag” and “nigger” far more
			  on the Net than off.
			  
		  
		 38 
			  Demonization
of 'them' — people with looks, languages, opinions, memberships and other groupings we don’t understand, like, or tolerate — is worse than ever on the Internet.   
		  
		 39 
			  Do you want the evolution of the Net to be driven by a post-Darwinian survival of the most obnoxious? Most hateful? Most sociopathic?  
			
		  
		 40 
			 Don’t tell us that women in Saudi Arabia can’t drive if women on our Internet can’t speak.  
			
		  
		 41 
			 Hatred is present on the Net because it’s present in the world, but the Net makes it easier to express and to hear.   
		  
		 42 
			 The solution: If we had a solution, we wouldn’t be bothering you with all these damn clues.  
			
		  
		 43 
			 We can say this much: Hatred didn't call the Net into existence, but it is holding the Net — and us — back.
			  
		  
		 44 
			 Let’s at least acknowledge that the Net has values implicit in it. Human values.  
			
		  
		 45 
			  Viewed coldly the Net is just technology. But it’s populated by creatures who are warm with what they care about: their lives, their friends, the world we share.   
		  
		 46 
			 The primordial Internet value, based on its technical nature and humans’ social nature, is cherishing a common place where we can be who we are, with others who delight in our differences.  
			
		  
		 47 
			  No one owns that place.  
		 
		  
		 48 
			  Everybody can use it.   
		 
		  
		 49 
			  Anyone can improve it.  
		 
		  
		 50 
			  That’s what an open Internet is. Wars have been fought
			  for less.   
		
		
		
		 b.  
			“We agree about everything. I find you fascinating!”
			 
		 51
			 
			That the Internet lowers the barrier to finding a group you agree with is a bug and a feature.   
		  
		 52 
			  The
world is spread out before us like a buffet, and yet we tend
to stick with our steak and potatoes, lamb and hummus, fish and rice, or whatever.  
			
		  
		 53 
			 We do this in part because conversation requires a common ground: shared language, interests, norms, understandings. Without those, it’s hard or even impossible to have a conversation.  
			
		  
		 54 
			 Shared grounds spawn tribes. The literal ground kept tribes at a distance, enabling them to develop rich differences. Rejoice! Tribes give rise to demonization and war. Rejoice? Not so much.  
			
		  
		 55 
			  On the Internet, the distance among tribes starts at zero.  
			
		  
		 56 
			 Apparently knowing how to find one another interesting is not as easy as it looks.  
			
		  
		 57 
			  That’s a challenge we can meet by being open, sympathetic, and patient. We can do it, team! We’re
			  #1! We’re #1!   
		  
		 58 
			 Being welcoming: There’s a value the Net needs to learn from the best of our real world cultures.   
		
		
		
		 c.  
			Marketing still makes it harder to talk. 
		  
		 59 
			  We were right the first
				time: Markets are conversations.  
			
		  
		 60 
			 A conversation still isn't your business tugging at our sleeve to shill a product we don't want to hear about.   
		  
		 61 
			  Your business' Web site invites us to “join the conversation"? Frankly, you sound a little desperate.
			  
		  
		 62 
			 Don't worry: we'll tell you when we're in the market for something. In our own way. Not yours. Trust us: this
				will be good for you.  
			
		  
		 63 
			  Does Internet advertising work? Wrong question. 
			 
		  
		 64 
			 The right question is, do ads make the place better or worse?   
		  
		 65 
			  Some
are better than others. And some are a whole lot worse.  
		  
		 66 
			 Brand advertising could be annoying, but at least it didn’t pretend to be a personal message whispered in our ear.   
		  
		 67 
			  Also: It didn’t dress itself up as news in the hope we’ll miss the little disclaimer hanging off its underwear.   
		  
		 68 
			  When personalizing something is creepy, it’s a pretty good indication that you don't understand what it means to be a person.   
		 
		  
		 69 
			 But then, maybe “you” isn’t a human. Maybe you’re just a big machine, crunching big data, using algorithms to guess about people. Are you listening, machine? Didn’t think so.   
		  
		 70 
			  Personal is human. Personalized isn’t.  
			
		  
		 71 
			  The difference is voice. Humans have have real ones. Machines don’t. The more human machines sound, the more they slide down into the uncanny
				valley where everything there is a creep show.
		 
		  
		 72 
			 The only thing worse: When marketing machines actually do sound human. We may buy your crap, but at the price of an erosion of human trust. So, thanks for that.
 
		  
		 73 
			 Advertisers got along without being creepy for generations. They can get along without being creepy on the Net, too.   
		 
		  
		 74 
			 When you make your ad sound like it came from a friendly human when it actually comes from your marketing department’s irritable bowels, you’re staining the fabric of the Web.  
			
		  
		 75 
			  When you place a "native
				ad," you’re eroding not just your own trustworthiness, but the trustworthiness of this entire new way of being with one another.  
			
		  
		 76 
			  And, by the way, how about calling “native ads” by any of their real names: “product placement,” “advertorial,” or “fake fuckinggosh darn news"?  
			
		  
		 77 
			  Also, please note that "trying to be authentic” makes as much sense as "trying to be effortless."  
			
		  
		 78 
			 Maybe “corporations are people, my friend” (no, they’re not) but are you telling us that they can be authentic people? Really?  
			
		  
		 79 
			So, here’s Rule #1 for Internet advertisers: Quit pretending to be human. Just be your selves. We like you better that way.  
		 
		  
		 80 
			 Rule #2: Make the place better or get off our Internet.   
		
		
		
		 d.  
			The Gitmo of the Net. 
		  
		 81 
			 We all love our apps. But put all the apps in the world together and you have a pile of apps.  
			
		  
		 82 
			  Put all the Web pages together and you have a new world.   
		  
		 83 
			 Web pages are about connecting. Apps are about control.   
		  
		 84 
As
				we move from the Web to an app-based world, we lose the commons we were building together.  
			
		  
		 85 
			  In the Kingdom of Apps, we are users, not makers. 
			 
		  
		 86 
			 Every new page makes the Web bigger. Every new link makes the Web richer.   
		 
		  
		 87 
			  Every new app gives us something else to do on the bus.   
		  
		 88 
			  Ouch, a cheap shot!   
		 
		  
		 89 
			 Hey, “CheapShot” would make a great new app! It’s got “in-app purchase” written all over it.  
			
		
		
		
		 e 
			Gravity’s great until it sucks us all into a black
			  hole. 
		  
		 90 
Non-neutral
applications built on top of the neutral Net are becoming as inescapable as the pull of a black hole. 
			 
		  
		 91 
			 If Facebook is your experience of the Net, then you’ve strapped on goggles from a company with a fiduciary responsibility to keep you from ever taking the goggles off.   
		  
		 92 
			  Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple are all in the goggles business. The biggest truth their goggles keep us from seeing: These companies want to hold us the way black holes hold light.   
		 
		  
		 93 
			 These corporate singularities are dangerous not because they are evil. Many of them in fact engage in quite remarkably civic behavior. They should be applauded for that.   
		 
		  
		 94 
			  They are dangerous because of an unanticipated way that social humans co-evolve with a connected network.  
			
		  
		 95 
			  The “network effect” is that thing where lots of people use something because lots of people use it. 
			 
		  
		 96 
			 Where there aren’t competitive alternatives, we need to be hypervigilant to remind these Titans of the Valley of the webby values that first inspired them. 
			 
		  
		 97 
			 And then we need to honor the sound we make when any of us bravely pulls away from them. It’s something between the noise of a rocket leaving the launchpad and the rip of Velcro as you undo a too-tight garment.
			  
		
		
		
		 f.  
			Privacy in an age of spies. 0
		  
		 98 
			 Our governments may not be doing much with our data that we know about and object to. But we don’t know that. And governments change.  
			
		  
		 99 
			 If we want our government to back off, the deal has to be that if — when — the next attack comes, we can’t complain that they should have surveilled us harder. 
			 
		  
		 100 
			  A trade isn’t fair trade if we don’t know what  we’re giving up and what we’re gaining. Do you hear that, Security for Privacy trade-off? 
			
		  
		 101 
			 With a probability approaching absolute certainty, we are going to be sorry we didn’t do more to keep data out of the hands of our governments and corporate overlords.   
		
		
		
		 g.  
			Privacy in an age of weasels. 1
		  
		 102 
			 Personal privacy is fine for those who want it. And we all draw the line somewhere.  
			
		  
		 103 
			 We old men of the Internet are not freaking out about personal privacy.   
		 
		  
		 104 
			 The Web is barely out of its teens, and the most important decisions about personal privacy are being made by a kid who ten years ago was in his dorm room writing software to let horny boys in other dorm rooms "rate" women. That's not going to be the end of the privacy story. 
			
		  
		 105 
			Q: How long do you think it took for pre-Web culture to figure out where to draw the lines? A: How old is culture?   
		  
		 106 
			 We can only figure out what it means to be private once we are at home with what it means to be social. And we've barely begun to invent that.  
			
		  
		 107 
			  Hackers got us into this and hackers will have to get us out. Until then, the economic and political incentives to de-pants and up-skirt us will remain scarily strong.   
		 
		
		 
	  
	  
	  
	    
		  III. Shall we gather at the river? 
		
		 a.  
			Kumbiyah sounds surprisingly good in an echo chamber. 2
		  
		 108 
			  The Internet is astounding. The Web is awesome. You are beautiful. Connect us all and we are more crazily amazing than Jennifer Lawrence. These are simple facts.  
			
		  
		 109 
			 So let's not minimize what the Net has done in the past twenty years:   
		 
		  
		 110 
			  There's so much more music in the world.  
			
		  
		 111 
			 We now make most of our culture for ourselves, with occasional forays to a movie theater for something blowy-uppy and $9 nickel-bag of popcorn.  
			
		  
		 112 
			 Politicians now have to explain their positions far beyond the one-page "position papers" they used to publish.   
		  
		 113 
			  Anything you don't understand you can find an explanation for. And a discussion about. And an argument over. Is it not clear how awesome that is? 
			 
		  
		 114 
			  You want to know what to buy? The business that makes an object of desire is now the worst source of information about it. The best source is all of us. 
			 
		  
		 115 
			 You want to listen in on a college-level course about something you're interested in? Google your topic. Take your pick. For free.  
			
		  
		 116 
			  Yeah, the Internet hasn't solved all the world's problems. That's why the Almighty hath given us asses: that we might get off of them.  
			
		  
		 117 
			  Internet naysayers keep us honest. We just like 'em better when they aren’t ingrates.  
			
		
		
		
		 b.  
			A pocket full of homilies. 3
		  
		 118 
			 We were going to tell you how to fix the Internet in four easy steps, but the only one we could remember is the last one: profit. So instead, here are some random thoughts…  
			
		  
		 119 
			 We should be supporting the artists and creators who bring us delight or ease our burdens.  
			
		  
		 120 
			 We should have the courage to ask for the help we need.   
		 
		  
		 121 
			 In the wrong context, everyone's an a-hole. (Us, too. But you already knew that.) So if you’re kindly inviting people over for a swim in your conversational pool, post the rules. And then moderate the crap out of the conversation, if that’s what it takes. All trolls, out of the pool!  
			
		  
		 122 
			  Remember, if the conversations at your site are going badly, it's your fault.  
			
		  
		 123 
			 Support the businesses that truly “get” the Web. You’ll recognize them not just because they sound like us, but because they are on our side.  
			
		  
		 124 
			  Sure, apps offer a nice experience. But the Web is about links that constantly reach out, connecting us without end. For lives and ideas, completion is death. Choose life.   
		  
		 125 
			  Anger is a license to be stupid. The Internet’s streets are already crowded with licensed drivers. 
			 
		  
		 126 
			 Remember when you were lost? Out of money? Afraid? Remember the person who welcomed you, fed you, listened? Be that person.  
			
		  
		 127 
			  Live the values you want the Internet to promote. 
			 
		  
		 128 
			 If you’ve been talking for a while, shut up. (We will very soon.)   
		
		
		
		
		 c.  
			Being together: the cause of and solution to every problem.
		  4
		  
		 129 
			 If we have focused on the role of the People of the Net  — you and us — in the Internet’s fall from grace, that’s because we still have the faith we came in with.   
		  
		 130 
			  We, the People of the Net, cannot fathom how much we can do together because we are far from finished inventing how to be together.  
			
		  
		 131 
			 The Internet has liberated an ancient force — the gravity drawing us together.  
			
		  
		 132 
			  The gravity of connection is love.  
			
		  
		 133 
			  Long live the open Internet.  
			
		  
		 134 
			  Long may may we have our Internet to love.  
			
	
		 
	   
	